Cody prompting guide (#367)
sourcegraph/docs: docs/cody/core-concepts/prompting-guide.mdx

# Cody Prompting Guide

> In this guide, we'll explore the best practices and tips for effective techniques to maximize your Cody experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p className="subtitle">These docs help you learn some of the best practices and tips for effective techniques to maximize your Cody experience.</p>
```

## Overarching Recommendation: Treat Cody Like a New Team Member

When collaborating with Sourcegraph Cody, it's helpful to approach it as if you were working with a new engineer who is unfamiliar with your project. Just as you would provide a new team member with detailed information and context about the codebase and the tasks at hand, you should do the same with Cody.

> Always lean towards providing more specific information about a certain task to ensure Cody understands your requirements clearly. The more context and details you provide, the better Cody can assist you in generating relevant and accurate code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Always provide more specific information about a task to ensure Cody understands your requirements clearly. The more context and details you provide, the better Cody can assist you in generating relevant and accurate code.
```

Just making the tone more docs friendly. :)

Consider the following examples:

❌ Instead of a vague prompt like:

```
How can I filter products in JavaScript?
```

✅ Provide a more specific prompt with details:

```
I have an array of product objects in JavaScript, where each object has the following properties: id, name, category, and price. How can I write a function to filter the products by category?
```

By treating Cody as a new team member and providing detailed information, you'll establish a more effective collaboration and get better results.

> We will split this guide into two parts: Preparation and Prompting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's split these docs into two parts: 
```

> -   Preparation: This part will focus on preparing your code for Cody.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Preparation**: How you'll prepare your code for Cody
```
formatting fix

> -   Prompting: This part will focus on crafting effective prompts for Cody.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Prompting**: How you will create effective prompts for Cody
```
formatting fix

> ## Part 1: Preparation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Preparation
```
We try not to use numbers in headings as these distort the URL pattern :)

Before diving into prompting techniques, it's crucial to set the stage for a successful collaboration with Cody. Here are some key preparation steps:

> ### Choose Descriptive VariNames

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Choose descriptive variable names
```
We use sentence-cased headings unless they have product names.

Using clear and descriptive names for variables, functions, and classes is essential for making your code readable and understandable, not only for yourself but also for Cody. Avoid abbreviations or ambiguous names that may confuse your AI assistant.

✅ Good example:

```php
function calculateTotalPrice($items, $taxRate) {
    // ...
}
```

❌ Bad example:

```php
function calc($i, $t) {
    // ...
}
```

> ### Write Clear Comments and Docstrings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Write clear comments and docstrings
```

- If the customer has loyalty points above 500, apply a 10% discount.
- If the customer has loyalty points between 200 and 500, apply a 5% discount.
- If the customer has loyalty points below 200, no discount is applied.

Create a function that takes the total amount and loyalty points as input and returns an object with the discount percentage and discount amount.
```

### Provide Specific Context

Providing detailed context is the most effective way to enhance Cody's assistance. Approach this as if you are explaining the situation to a new engineer.

You should:

-   Reference important files and symbols
-   Provide examples from other similar functions

To provide specific context from your codebase, you can use the `@-` mention feature to provide syntax. You can mention specific files, sections of code, and symbols to help Cody understand your code.

Here is an example of bringing in specific lines of code. The shortcut to do this is to highlight code and press `Opt+L` on Mac or `Ctrl+L` on Windows.

IMAGE HERE: cody-mention-snippet.jpg

Here is an example of `@-` mentioning a specific file:

IMAGE HERE: cody-mention-file.jpg

> ### Provide Examples and Test Cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Provide examples and test cases
```

Include examples and test cases when applicable to clarify your expectations. Demonstrate edge cases or handling of special conditions to guide Cody in generating robust code.

❌ Bad example:

```
I need to validate email addresses in JavaScript
```

✅ Good example:

```
Create a function to validate email addresses in JavaScript. Return true for valid email addresses and false for invalid ones. Here are some example test cases:

Valid:
- "john@example.com"
- "jane.doe@example.co.uk"

Invalid:
- "john@example"
- "jane.doe@example."
- "invalid.email"

Please write the function
```

> ### Iterate and Refine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Iterate and refine
```

Start with a general prompt and incrementally add more details based on Cody's responses. Take advantage of the fact that you can chat with Cody. Bring the back and forth conversation, especially if you didn't like Cody's first response. Review the generated code or suggestions, provide feedback, and refine your prompts to get the desired results.

Initial prompt:

```
I need to calculate the total price of an order. Help me write the function
```

Refined prompt:

```
Thanks. I forgot to mention:

- The function should take an array of order items as input
- We need to apply a 10% discount if the total price exceeds $100
- Final total should be rounded to two decimal places

Please update the function
```

> ### Leverage Cody's Strengths

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Leverage Cody's strengths
```

> Utilize Cody's capabilities for generating boilerplate code, common patterns, and repetitive tasks. Prompt it to assist with unit tests, documentation, and error handling to save time and ensure code quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Utilize [Cody's capabilities](/cody/capabilities) for generating boilerplate code, common patterns, and repetitive tasks. Prompt it to assist with unit tests, documentation, and error handling to save time and ensure code quality.
```
let's link to our Capabilities docs

✅ Good example:

```
Help me write tests for the `calculateAverageRating` function. Here are the test cases I have in mind:

- Empty ratings array should return 0
- Array with one rating should return that rating
- Array with multiple ratings should calculate the average correctly

Make sure the tests cover any edge cases or potential issues. Thanks!
```

You can also use the **Generate Tests** command to generate tests for your code.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```
I'd suggest let's remove this conclusion part since it does not align with the docs content type. :)

> By following these best practices for preparation and prompting, you can effectively collaborate with Sourcegraph Cody and leverage its AI capabilities to boost your coding productivity. Remember, treating Cody like a new team member and providing detailed information is key to a successful collaboration. By following these best practices and examples, you'll be able to leverage Cody's AI capabilities effectively and streamline your coding workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's recommended to try out these tips and make your experience better with Cody. If you have any questions regarding Cody, you can always [ask our community](https://community.sourcegraph.com), [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/s2qDtYGnAE), or [create a post on X](https://twitter.com/sourcegraphcody).
```
Instead, we can add something like this. :)

> Happy coding with Cody!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
